[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: But let's decide
that we want to make ourselves,
just cause I'm not creative enough to come
up with something that we have time for
that's like the secure phrase generation.
So I'm just literally going to
create a random number module.
Which does nothing but call math.random.
But we're gonna illustrate again
this point of creating some code and
using it in both places, okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: So what we wanna do is
first come up here to our place where I've
got my hybrid server browser modules.
And you notice I have one here that
I was kind of already a placeholder
anticipation.
So I'm just gonna uncomment that,
we're gonna call our random
number thing Foo for now.
>> Kyle Simpson: So, uncomment that
variable and then come down here,
I've got it commented out.
You can uncomment that line which
is going to expect to find,
as you see on line 67 there,
it's gonna expect to find a capital F,
Foo.js file in the web JS directory.
It's a place where I'm putting
my hybrid shared modules.
That file doesn't exist but
we're gonna create it next.
So I don't wanna retype
all that boilerplate code.
So what I'm going to do is open
up one of those ones that already
exists in that location so,
come to the JS directory.
Let's see what's a good one to use,
let's use view.js just open up view.js.
And let's take out the stuff in
the inner contents of view JS.
>> Kyle Simpson: And save,
don't save overview cuz you need it.
Save as and duplicate it and
call it Foo.js.
>> Kyle Simpson: One little minor change,
you'll wanna make sure you do is change
that word view there on line
5 change it to the word Foo.
So we get the proper naming for
our module.
Okay.
So from a perspective of defining
ourselves a module we wanna have
some internal characteristics
inside of our module.
And then we wanna have a public API that
we can interact with in some way with our
module.
So my internal characteristics are let's
suggest that I have a function
that I call random.
>> Kyle Simpson: And its job is to
return me a Math.random number.
Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: I know that's
not terribly interesting.
I'm just showing you the pattern for
how to create something that we can reuse.
Now if you were not using the UMD
style if you wanted to write your code
in CommonJS style in known.
Or you wanted to write an AMD style.
Then the only thing that would be
extra on top of what we're doing here,
is that you'd need to
have browser of running.
And browser would take your file much like
the templates are automatically converted.
Browser if I would have a watch
that would take this file and
automatically convert it to something
that would run in the browser.
I just didn't want that step involved
in our thought processes today.
And that's why I've chosen the UMD.
But there's really no difference in
terms of the concept of what's happening
on the inside.
So we need a public API to express that or
to expose that function.
So we'll call that public API random.
Now I want to use that information on
both the server and on the client.
I have a module now that's
being loaded in to my server.
But I actually want to invoke it and
use it so
I'm going to come back
to the server JS file.
And I want to set up,
>> Kyle Simpson: Trying to figure
out the best place to put this I think
it's going to go right after load page.
So right before the default route
we're gonna make a new route.
Essentially, we're gonna make a foo API,
a foo API call.
Okay, so I'm gonna say routes.stop push.
>> Kyle Simpson: Putting
away a little comment.
>> Kyle Simpson: And then this route Is
a function which we'll call the FooRoute.
Takes a request object and
a response object.
This is exactly the same sort of thing you
do if you were going to define a new route
with express or
any of those other frameworks.
You'd have to do some sort of
middleware handler for it.
So that's what we're doing we're making a
little handler a little middleware for it.
Now I need to figure out if the requests
that's come in is one that I recognize
as being something that I want to do.
So I'm gonna say if req.url,
that's the incoming url,
if It is equal to /Foo, the capital F.
And for just good measure.
Well no, let's just be simple,
req.url if it's /Foo.
So that means we recognize that this
is a route that we want to handle.
Okay.
So what I'm going to do, then, is say
and I'm going to invoke and
use my Foo module, so I have a Foo there
that I can just say Foo.random on,
right, need to pull out a number.
Since this is an API request,
basically what I need to do is
package it up as a JSON and
send it back to the server.
I mean send it back to the browser.
Okay this is all node stuff so
basically what we're going to do is say,
res.writeHead and
we wanna give it the 200 status response.
And then we wanna give it a Content-Type
header of application JSON.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
then I want to say res.end and
the final data that I'm wanna send along.
I'm going to stringify an object
>> Kyle Simpson: Which
has one property in it called answer
that has the value num that I created,
>> Kyle Simpson: Is everybody following?
Okay.
So, that's going to package up a JSON
object with one property in it that has
the response that we got.
Now, I made this simple.
This was a synchronous thing that I
could answer cuz it's just random number
generation.
Had that needed to be something
like a database request,
which many real API calls do, we might
have been calling off to a Foo module and
asking it to do some stuff and
waiting for it to respond.
And it's that asynchronous process
that we'd wanna invoke something
like a promise system so
that it was clean and clear for us instead
of doing a bunch of nested call-backs.
A promise system.
So if instead of getting num back,
I had gotten a promise back,
then I would have said
something like .then.
And this code here would have been
inside of my .then cuz I would
only want to run this when I
was finished with the promise.
But we keeping things simple,
we're not doing an asynchronous
module at the moment.
So I just can manually get
that random number right away.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
then these three lines of code are really,
I mean these four lines of code or
really nothing special at all.
That's exactly how node does it.
It's exactly how any framework out
there sends out their responses.
>> Kyle Simpson: So the code from lines
186 to 189 is code that doesn't need to be
shared with the browser because it doesn't
even make any sense in a browser context.
Talking about status codes and header
managements, none of that needs to be.
But if there was something that we were
doing there that we would wanna share.
We'd wanna offload that into
a module like we've offloaded Foo.
Does everybody see that?
So you wanna look for places where
there is something that does make sense
to do in both and not repeat yourself.
And the basic way that I'm
suggesting you go about that is,
whenever there's something that
you wanna do in multiple places,
that is, both places,
put it in its own module.
And do it like I just showed you,
how we did that Foo.
Put a little wrapper round it, or
invoke browser, fire or whatever,
but put that code inside
of its own module.
Here we just have this one touch point,
this Foo.random that we wanna get.
>> Kyle Simpson: So we've essentially made
ourselves a route for an API endpoint.
>> Kyle Simpson: But I wanna also.
>> Kyle Simpson: Actually that for
now we'll just keep it simple.
I keep trying to make it more complex.
For now we'll just say our server
uses Foo through an API call.